>> Will Sentance: Folks,
so we have now set up.
[SOUND] We're ready to go to start
getting data from out of our file system,
our file storage, what we saved earlier.
We did this manually.
We literally just, I don't know, dragged
and dropped this big old file of data
that we want to then use
JavaScript labels for
Node C++ feature that's written
in C++ that does have
access to our file system.
Perfect.
What is the JavaScript label?
Can anyone spot on here, Zep,
what's the JavaScript label we're
going to use to give us access
to our Node plus C++ built feature that
gives us access to the file system?
>> Zep: FS?
>> Will Sentance: FS is the label, FS
dot read file is the specific label bill
into JavaScript that gives access to Node.
Now remember we have to require it in.
But it's as good as built in as a label to
trigger Node C++ base functionality,
all right.
Let's get going.
By the looks of it,
it's gonna take an actual position
of a file on our file system.
I guess we're gonna rely on
Node to know how to go and
look into the file system grab that
file and start bringing it back here.
Andrew line 1.
What are we doing?
>> Andrew: D clear a label
called Clean tweets.
And that stores the entire
function of Clean tweets.
>> Will Sentance: Very nicely put exactly
we're not gonna say how it works we just
know it's like a black box.
We just know that if it takes in data
it'll return out clean data of bad words.
Okay, next line.
Matt.
>> Matt: The next line is read Declare
Function called use imported tweets.
>> Will Sentance: Use imported tweets,
there it is my friends.
Excellent, thank you.
And now we get triggering
Node functionality.
Sarah Rose.
Where is FS.read file going
to have the majority or
is important consequences in JavaScript.
>> Sarah Rose: No in the Nodes C++.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly.
So I'm bringing out my purple pen.
My Node purple pen parts in slash
tweets dot JSON which is just
to be really clear folks, to JavaScript
that is just a string of characters.
It has no idea what that means.
That doesn't mean it follows a path to it.
It's got no idea.
Node is going to look at it and say,
okay, it's asking specifically for
this location in the computer's memory,
that computer's hard drive.
The first input we always pass through,
where do we find out about how
FS.readfile works, everyone?
>> Speaker 6: Documentation?
>> Will Sentance: The node documentation.
And it will tell us,
first input is the path,
the location of a file on your computer.
Second input is the function
that we want to have what?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Will Sentance: Autorun,
there's the word I wanna hear.
Auto, Automatically run.
Thank you Mohammed, exactly.
Use imported tweets is the function
we want Node to auto run.
So this here is a command
to our dear friend.
Node and
it's saying take this path, use it.
Take this function have it
auto run at the right moment.
When do you think that
function is going to auto run?
Sam?
When would it make sense to have it?
It takes a bit of time to grab that
tweet data into Node and JavaScript.
So when do we think that
function is gonna auto run?
When would it make sense to
have it auto run, Michael?
>> Michael: When it completes
getting the tweets.
>> Will Sentance: Getting tweets, exactly.
Getting the JSON data into Node and
into JavaScript accent.
All right, so
we're going to set up FS in Node.
There it is Fs, that's just its name for
connecting to the file system via live
up to what information does it need?
It needs this path.
There it is and it needs a function
to auto run, which is what?
Roman, what function is going to auto run?
>> Roman: Use imported tweets.
>> Will Sentance: Use imported
tweets thank you, man.
Use imported tweets.
There they are.
I have a feeling the auto-created and
inserted data the argument might
just be the data from tweets.JSON,
that'd be nice, right?
Okay, good, setup done.
Setup done immediately.
It's going to start from Node sending.
It's gonna first figure
out what this path is.
Dot means current folder in
which you are running Node.
Which happens to be fortunately
where we saved tweets.JSON.
Slash says look in that folder.
Find the tweets.JSON.
There it is and
make a connection through to it.
No does too much detail but
just so you know.
Unlike for when we speak to
the network where we Node and
libuv does not handle the actual
opening of the socket and
the focusing of a thread
on waiting inbound message.
A thread is the computer's ability to do
a task and focus on a single task at once.
We are not responsible and
in either Node or libuv for
having a thread dedicated to
awaiting an inbound message.
That is handled by the computer's
internals, the operating system itself.
A thread is just the processing power of
the computer to focus on a single task
in this case listening for
an inbound message.
We don't do that in Node or libuv.
It's done by the operating system itself.
However, because there's too much,
this is my understanding, too much variety
in how different computers implement.
Access to file storage and
file system libuv,
said we are gonna handle the setting
up of a persistent thread
that's going to focus on
pulling that data into Node.
And we're gonna be in charge of that, on
any computer operating system you use this
is one of those big senior
dev questions in node.
Which I/O, this is known as I/O,
input/output from the computer system.
Which I/O in Node sets up
a thread dedicated within Node,
handled by libuv for doing that task,
and which one doesn't.
File system access sets up a thread.
I/O through a network or
a socket rely on the computer to do the
focusing on awaiting that inbound message.
Okay, all right.
Good, so it's true.
I do stamp my foot,
John told me I stamp my foot when
I'm trying to start a new section.
Do I always do this?
That's very interesting.
Good point, John.
Excellent, all right.
I'm going to do it like I'm doing now.
All right, so there you go.
Now this we got to wait a while people.
It's a big old file.
That is a huge file.
Time is passing.
What is it it's like.
It would be 15 seconds.
I mean roughly 15 seconds, but it's a long
time, while this data is flowing in.
15 seconds later, people.
I want you to know,
that's not a short time.
To save stuff to memory here
takes 100 nanoseconds, or
a nanosecond, 100 nanoseconds,
very, very, very short.
That means that 15 seconds is millions,
it's orders of magnitude,
millions times longer.
The time it would take to do
something locally in JavaScript.
This is like a big, big, big,
long time in computer time,
long, longer than often
going to a data center and
bringing data back for another
machine that's ready, there available,
accessible in RAM on the other machine,
is really, really slow task.
I just want to really flag that to
everybody who's gonna mean before you want
to break it down later on.
So anyway, income to the data and
15 seconds.
Good news.
It's done.
What functions gonna auto run
when the data comes in Zip?
>> Zep: Using point tweet.
>> Will Sentance: Using point tweet.
Let's throw it up and
let's start executing it.
Use imported Tweets.
I should have probably done it in purple,
but
I'll talk about the execution
of it in purple.
Here it is.
Huge execution context for this,
cuz I wanna do a bunch of stuff in it.
So here it is, the execution context for
it to run its code.
>> Will Sentance: Okay, into it we go.
What's the auto-created and inserted data?
Folk, it's that JSON formatted
stringified version of an object.
So it's gonna look something like this,
JSON data you have to put double
quotes around every damn thing.
So Toneiger.
Those who are regulars using it know
that if you get one double quote
out either the whole thing gets corrupted.
You gotta figure out where the error is.
By the way the helpful thing for
that is there's a bunch of online tools
that will help you spot your JSON error.
There's always one, you try to edit it
manually you move the comma in the wrong
place and
that is infamously a very very and
the pass function is going to turn it
into an object in here isn't like some
sophisticated parts that
can go past finally go.
They missed a quote that.
No problem.
I'll figure it out.
Here is a simple simple function
that's going to do only one
thing which is convert perfectly formatted
JSON data into a job as an object.
That's all it can do.
It's not like a sophisticated algorithm
for figuring out your errors.
Okay, ao anyway the date comes in
the first tweet is always hello.
There we go.
And then there'll be another one tweet.
So forth.
Huge it's 1.5 billion
characters long long long long.
It's like tons of tweets by the way
still nowhere near all the tweets but
like a lot of tweets.
Okay, this is gonna be
auto inserted into here.
Does it get a name?
Not by Node, do we give it a name?
>> Speaker 10: Yeah.
>> Will Sentance: Yes, yeah.
There you go.
We give it a name.
Two auto inserted inputs.
Damn it.
Two was inserted.
This is the second one.
Was the first auto inserted input?
This is called the error
first pattern in Node.
A lot of Node features,
their auto triggered function, the auto
run function will take two inputs.
The first one, I don't know, damn, the
first one will represent any error data.
Let's put it up here above so
it's really clear.
The first one will also
represent any error data.
The second one,
with the actual data we care about.
It's there's no-error data,
this state is clean, it's fine.
No-error data,
the first one would default to?
>> Speaker 11: Undefined?
>> Will Sentance: Undefined is
a really reasonable thing to think.
Actually, here, it defaults to?
>> Speaker 12: Initialized data.
>> Speaker 13: No.
>> Will Sentance: No.
It's spawned from, Virginia,
there it is, null.
So, the first input will be null.
The second input will be all our
JSON stringified data, okay.
Let's go into the execution context,
let me try to give enough space.
Yeah, [SOUND], probably about here.
Okay, in the local memory, this is a more
complex function than I'd like, but
I want to show you something.